## Performing Agents

### Autonomous Robots as Performing Agents, Karl R. Wurst and Robert McCartney

After reading this article, I want to combine some part of the research with my define of robots. I think robots are extensions of human beings, which means robots have functions that humans have but more powerful and they can be extensions of humans' thoughts. For example, human cannpt explore the other planets by their physical bodies, but robots with specific materials and functions can. Accoridng to Robert, "performing agents are designed to entertain an audience through performance" (Robert, 56). So we have perforers and animations and so on in order to show tricks or express directors' thoughts to the audience. However, as I think that human beings have many limits and visiual arts are less entertaining and engaging that physical performance, here comes the appearance of performing agents. They can be mediums for the director to communicate with the audience through the communication between performing agents. I consider this as an extension of performing because there is something human cannot achieve without the help of robots while there are limits of visual arts.

In this article, Robert apply Woggles as an example. There is no script or plot that they follow in they follow in their performance, it is entirely interaction-driven. And this research aims to create a system which lets the performing agents communicate with each other thorugh the gestures in order to "duplicate the behaviors as well as mimic the visual aspects of the original woggles as much as possible" (Robert, 57). Robert also points out that they are going to "propose a simpler but functionally equivalent vision system that eliminates the need for most of the visual input processing" (Robert, 58). In my opinion, this is not only a simplifier of engeneerig aspects, but also a simulation of "traditional performing" from the audience's point of view. In this system, performing agents can communicate with the ones that facing them and realize what the others are doing from the back as well. After the system is done, the performing agents can be developed as extensions of human performance. 

Moreover, Robert mentions that they will complete a dictionary which includes the gestures and meanings. They will also perfect the state machine of the performing agents. I think the key of applying performing agents into perform arts is to make them commuicatable. Also, the way of their communication need to be understood by the audience. The physical gesture is a good idea than simply sending digital signals. To be frank, I haven't seen many performing robots so I have no idea what can be considered as a "good" performance of robots, but I believe that as extensions of human beings, robots will surprise the audience when they stand on the stage.
