## Eight Lessons Learned about Non-verbal Interactions through Robot Theater

### Heather Knight

Non-verbal communication is key to understanding sociability, and is rooted in every aspect of life conditions involving social interactions. Such moments filled with social and emotional exchange are vital for theater robots as they aim to evoke dramaturgy effect. It also functions as testbeds for human non-verbal behavior.
To achieve some goals there are direct and peripheral approaches. In terms of showing intentions, the robot can either show by behaviors directly or show adverse reactions for failure. The timing profiles in "look, reach, grab" also indicate motivation, emotionality and social meaning. Therefore, readability in intentions and reactions is an important aspect for us to pay attention to. Furthermore, “outward intentionality outweighs an actor’s internal feelings, and the two may be out of sync.” This actually made me feel a bit bad because robots here are made to have fake feelings in order for its performance contribution to the larger interaction. In fact, the word “robot” means “forced labor/slave” in R.U.R, the Cezch play by Karel Čapek, as the originality of the modern reference of robot.
Among the eight conclusions the author made out of the eight lessons in the section of "Conclusion: The role of Robot Theater", I completely agree with the quote from the Pixar animator that robot behaviors can be readable "such that people can figure out what the robot is doing, reasonably predict what the robot will do next, and ultimately interact with the robot in an effective way”. Our in-class discussion last week also looked into how non-verbal interaction - the hyper-realistic facial expression - plays a central role in establishing social meaning. We human beings have long been continuously giving and receiving wordless signals. "There’s an effect associated with every functioning of the body, from moving our foot to taking a step to move our lips to make words." We've developed to learn both known and novel robot gestural and bodily expressions. I was fascinated with non-verbal conveyance in robot performance and would love to experiment with it in our final performance. In my previous experience with animation and performance, I always relied on voiceover as a straightforward solution to convey messages to the audience. I am very interested in how we can have the observers reliably infer our messages from the programmed robots' behaviors.

My question is if people often interpret non-verbal robot behaviors by remapping them onto themselves, how do we make sure in our performance that we incorporate a design that most of the audience can relate to while reflecting on their different experience?
 
 

