## On Stage: Robots as Performers

This article suggests that robots for musical and theater uses can be a good test-bed for human-robot interaction. The auther thinks that 
This article introduces a "real-time adaptive and autonomous robotic improvisation system" that uses "anticipatory beat-matched action to enable real-time synchronization with the human player". The key point of this system is the “continuity” and “responsiveness” robots showed when presenting performances. Which makes them being considered as real actors that can interact with each other and audiences.

The director mentions that it will be perfect is robot can have their own "inner monologue". According to modern performers, the reason why “inner monologue is more important than memorizing your lines” is because “any particular action results from the character’s desires, will, and needs”. In order to achieve this, the robots should utilize “the most recent input and decision-node”, and “a continuous and multi-layered stream of constantly changing internal parameters”. This is more likely to be a machine learning process, which can let the robots learn the proper behaviours under different situations.
This really “help(s) avoid the command-and-response behavior robots usually display, and lead to more fluency and acceptance in human-robot joint activities” and even gives the robots the ability to better behave in musical areas. However, it is worth thinking about whether the programmed "inner monologue" is real or not. In my opinion, the form of one's inner monologue is based on his own experiences and growth. It is similar as storytelling and poem writing. But what robots can do is to analyze different experiences and copy what a human will react to a certain occasion. We all know that there is a saying that "there is a thousand Hamlets in a thousand peaple's eyes". But in a robot's "eyes", its Hamlet is a summary of a thousand people's Hamlet. We can make the robot be more and more similar to us but it is hard to realize the peculiarty of human identities on robots.
This is why we should pay more attention to the concept of "inner monologue". I think what we can do know is to create different robotic actors which has different charact personalities (maby just a simulation of a certain individual). But is that possible to let robots generate their own thoughts and "inner monologues"?
